# 42Barcelona_05_Push_Swap
This project involves sorting data on a stack with a restricted set of instructions, aiming to minimize the number of actions required. Success in this project entails the manipulation of different algorithms and the selection of the most suitable solution for optimized data sorting

## Introduction

The Push Swap project is a straightforward algorithm task. The objective is to sort data. A set of integer values, two stacks, and a set of instructions are provided for manipulation. The task is to create a C program named 'push_swap' that calculates and displays the shortest program, consisting of Push Swap language instructions, for sorting the given integer arguments on the standard output.

## The rules:
- You have 2 stacks named a and b.
- At the beginning:
  - Stack a contains a random amount of negative and/or positive numbers which cannot be duplicated.
  - Stack b is empty.
    
- The goal is to sort numbers in ascending order into stack a. To achieve this, you have the following operations at your disposal:
  - **sa** (swap a): Swap the first 2 elements at the top of stack a. Do nothing if there is only one or no elements.
  - **sb** (swap b): Swap the first 2 elements at the top of stack b. Do nothing if there is only one or no elements.
  - **ss**: Perform sa and sb at the same time.
  - **pa** (push a): Take the first element at the top of b and put it at the top of a. Do nothing if b is empty.
  - **pb** (push b): Take the first element at the top of a and put it at the top of b. Do nothing if a is empty.
  - **ra** (rotate a): Shift up all elements of stack a by 1. The first element becomes the last one.
  - **rb** (rotate b): Shift up all elements of stack b by 1. The first element becomes the last one.
  - **rr**: Perform ra and rb at the same time.
  - **rra** (reverse rotate a): Shift down all elements of stack a by 1. The last element becomes the first one.
  - **rrb** (reverse rotate b): Shift down all elements of stack b by 1. The last element becomes the first one.
  - **rrr**: Perform rra and rrb at the same time.
 
The program **'push_swap'** is designed to take a list of integers as an argument, with the first argument being placed at the top of the stack. The program's primary functionalities are as follows:

- It aims to display the shortest list of instructions necessary to sort stack 'a' in ascending order, with the smallest number positioned at the top.
- The instructions are separated by a line break ('\n') and nothing else.
- The program strives to sort the stack with the fewest possible operations. 
- In case of errors, the program will display "Error" followed by a line break ('\n') on the standard error. Errors can occur when arguments are not integers, when some arguments exceed the maximum integer value, or when duplicates are present.

## Bonus part
The bonus consists of developing a program called 'checker' that checks the instructions generated by the 'push_swap' program to sort a stack of integers. The instructions for the 'checker' program are as follows:

- The 'checker' program is designed to take a list of integers as an argument, with the first argument being placed at the top of the stack. If no argument is provided, the program will terminate without displaying any output.

- Subsequently, the program will enter a waiting state and read instructions from the standard input, with each instruction followed by a line break ('\n'). Once all the instructions have been read, the program is responsible for executing them on the stack received as an argument.

- After executing these instructions, if the stack 'a' is sorted in ascending order and stack 'b' is empty, the program will display "OK" followed by a line break ('\n') on the standard output.

- In all other cases, the program will display "KO" followed by a line break ('\n') on the standard output.

- In case of an error, the program will display "Error" followed by a line break ('\n') on the standard error. Errors can occur, for example, when some arguments are not integers, when some arguments exceed the maximum integer value, when duplicates are present, when an instruction doesn't exist, or when an instruction is incorrectly formatted.

## Compilation
* To compile the main program, use the following command:
> _make_

* To compile the bonus part, use:
> _make bonus_

## Example: 
* To sort the following numbers 2 1 3 6 5 8, execute the following command, and the program will display the instructions as follows

```
$>./push_swap 2 1 3 6 5 8
sa
pb
pb
pb
sa
pa
pa
pa
```

* If you want to test the checker, you can do so as follows:
```
$>ARG="4 67 3 87 23"; ./push_swap $ARG | ./checker $ARG
OK
```
